SourceLess - the source to VGA_Less

Okay, my original plan was to not release this until someone found the three
hidden parts (or were there 4? :) but anyway, I guess that I'd might as well
release this thingy now.

If you want the .RAD playback source, you'll have to get RPlay v2.x from me
somewhere, most likely on my webpage (http://web.nmsu.edu/~jshagam for a link
to it).

Oh yeah.  Here's the important information:

1. This, as usual, will *NOT* compile on its own without serious modification.
   Anyone who gets it to compile would probably know better than to try to
   rip it (well, seeing as how it's designed for an 8086 with CGA and an
   AdLib soundcard I don't think there's much of a problem with VGA_less
   clones :)  The stuff that's missing:

   a. The music (mainly because it's not exactly... er... mine :)
   b. The graphics (not like a picture of two porcupines standing on a
      mountain are exciting enough to be ripped anyway)
   c. The music playback routine (you'll have to get RPlay for that, and in
      this it was slightly "customized," i.e. it's got slightly different
      playback rates :)

2. Information about this demo: It was entered into the 1996 Hornet 8086
   compo.  It got second out of three, although I personally think that all
   of the demos are pretty damn good.  Sorta.  The first place demo is only
   good because it uses its own music playback routine (a slideshow is, IMO,
   boring), and the third place demo had some pretty good code (even though
   it could have been a lot better).  As for mine? Well, I was going more for
   art and less for a demo of sorts.

3. Ummm... er... have fun :)  Also, please report the hidden parts to Phoenix
   (it would seem kind of lame if I did it :)

So anyway, the main reason I'm releasing this now (well, as soon as I get my
net connection back in a few days :) is because I'm going through my
c:\tp\projects directory tree and PKZipping everything in it which I'm not
working with anymore (having only 50 megs free on a 503 meg partition with
about 60 megs of slack is *not* a good thing :).  Well, okay, I'll probably
end up just compressing my billions of versions of the ending pic.  Whatever.

For the official release of VGA_less and the other 8086 compo entries, check
out http://ftp.cdrom.com/pub/demos/hornet/8086 etc. etc.

l8rz
Quantum Porcupine
march somethingth (it's a Thursday I think), 1996

(I must have been pretty tired when I first wrote this...)
