This project was started in 2001. No changelog for initial changes...
This is both a changelog and a place to put notes about undelete.

Compilation: Turbo C with the included .tc and makefile (adjust the
             paths as needed). Turbo C 2.01 should be available for
             free in the "software museum" area of Borland online.



Feb 20 2008: Initial support for FAT32 (no drive access flags and
             locking yet, so Windows and certain DOS versions will
             probably refuse to let undelete access raw sectors)
             Using "in place" undelete on FAT32 causes wrong FS INFO
             sector disk space info. Correct with DOSFSCK if needed.

Jan 06 2004: Added a bit of documentation...

Nov 14 2003: Contributed MS-style interface, with /ALL and /LIST options.
             Rebuilds the FAT chain directly after prompting for recovery
             by directory/filename etc. (so it can undelete "in place"
             instead of only storing data from deleted files on another
             drive). Breaks the ability to compile in Linux gcc, sorry!!
             This version comes with a makefile instead of a TC .prj :-)

Oct 20 2002: Added "extract" mode and made autodetection of the size
             the default for all modes. Fixed a bug that would cause
             failure to read partitions of size 16..32 MB. New help
             screen, GNU GPL License disclaimer spread over all files.
             Howto is part of the package but already deprecated with
             respect to size autodetection :-(. More verbose error
             messages. Help screen made with help of Emanuele Cipolla.
             Full GPL disclaimers on request of JHall of the FreeDOS
             project ( http://www.freedos.org/ ). Special undelete
             release for my birthday today ;-). Both DOS and Linux
             binaries (Linux version reads test.img, wants a dummy
             prefix "x:" for target files) and .obj included. Compile
             the Linux version with: gcc -Wall *.c -s -o undelete.elf

Nov 07 2002: Added better LFN display and removed the need to have NASM
             for the "DOS disks > 32 MB" driver part. All C now. Also
             allows drivespec in dirsave dir selection now, which is
             IGNORED. This is only there to ease the use of UNDELETE in
             combination with the new cool %_CWD% feature of FreeCOM 0.83
             beta 50.
             Added some batch files that use the new FreeCOM to mirror
             the normal mirror stuff and optionally the whole directory
             data dump. Added a nifty COUNT tool for counting in batch
             files (by me) and the public domain (?) GLOBAL recursion
             helper tool.
             Use NASM -fobj bigdisk.asm -o bigdisk.obj to create the
             bigdisk.obj used in this version.



If you find any errors or if you want to improve FAT32 support or
add other fancy features, please contact me: eric@coli.uni-sb.de

Fancy features can include: Relative directory names for dirsave
and wildcard search for follow and extract. Please do not break
old functions by adding new features.

Cheers from Eric Auer, author and maintainer of this UNDELETE tool.

PS: Remember that UNDELETE does not come with any warranty at all!
Read the GNU GPL License for more explanations. In short, you get
this UNDELETE for free, but undeleting is a messy thing to do and
if something goes wrong and breaks all your files do not blame me.
