Oxyd is designed as an adventure in science and exploration. Like
your historic counterparts, you are thrust into unknown and 
dangerous worlds that will challenge you with every step you 
take. Don't ruin this wonderful and mind-expanding experience by 
reading the hints provided below! Resist the temptation, and, if 
you seriously get stuck somewhere, read only the hint provided 
for that level.

Level 1 introduces the basic game concept behind Oxyd. You will 
see eight Oxyd tokens in the center of the screen. When you 
bounce into one of them with your marble, the Oxyd will open up 
and reveal a hidden color or pattern. Now try to find the 
matching color hidden beneath on of the remaining Oxyds. Once all 
Oxyds have been matched, the landscape is solved and you move on 
to the next one. Patches of quicksand and the rotating Jack make 
life difficult for you in this level.

Level 2 contains six Oxyds that need to be paired off. However, 
two of them are apparently sealed off in a room with no obvious 
access. There is a note giving you a hint on how to solve this 
puzzle. To pick up the note, roll over it with your marble, then 
hit the left mouse button to read it.

Level 3 consists of several rooms. Check the screen borders to 
find out where the other rooms are. You will find the mirror 
useful. It slides along the track if you hit it hard enough, and 
it will turn if you touch it lightly.

Level 4 has another room above, and you will notice some 
interesting effects on the mouse there. In this level you will 
have to learn how to shift objects in your personal inventory. 
Everything you're carrying is displayed at the bottom of the 
screen. Only the object in the left-most position of the 
inventory may be activated. So, if you want to use the umbrella, 
hit the tab key on your Mac (right mouse button on other 
machines) and shift the token. Then hit the left mouse button to 
activate it. If you want to get rid of the useless messages you 
have collected in this level, activate them with the left mouse 
button and cut the message short by hitting the tab key (right 
mouse button).

Level 5 is full of gadgets you will have to explore. The blinking 
lights and the border pieces are very important. Listen for the 
sound of doors opening! You can't see them, but maybe there's an 
adjacent room somewhere! Sliding doors and switches, there is a 
connection here. Remember how to fly, and how to shift tokens in 
your inventory?

Level 6 gives you an entire room full of dangerous toys. Get 
bombs by bouncing into one of the dispensors. Ignite bombs by 
placing a stick of dynamite next to them. The shovel fills in 
dents you have created in the ground. Wooden blocks help bridge 
chasms.

Level 7 is deceptively easy. Start with the left-most object, or 
else you'll get stuck.

Level 8 takes you down a long corridor. Don't do anything until 
you get to the end of it. Then activate the coffee break, collect 
your wits, hit the left mouse button to resume the game, and 
bring the marble to a complete stop just short of the swimming 
pool. Now go looking for the Oxyds.

Level 9 needs to be completed in just the right sequence. Start 
with the wooden piece on the left, then blow up the blocking 
pieces in the center and top left portion of the screen. You will 
need a bomb and a stick of dynamite to remove the last blocking 
piece.

Level 10 is a meditation landscape. Watch the action for a short 
while. The black holes will not destroy your marbles, so don't 
worry. When marbles reappear on the left or right side of the 
platforms, slowly drag one of them away toward a pocket and place 
it there. When all four marbles are placed in their individual 
pockets, let go of the mouse so that the marbles come to a 
complete rest and you can advance to the next level.

Slow dragging motions are the key to success here, and level 10 
will tell you a lot about the quality of your mouse: Wobbly 
movement, delayed action and similar control problems are a good 
indication that your mouse needs to be cleaned. Dirt tends to 
build up on the rollers inside the mouse, making it less precise 
and responsive. You would not notice this problem very much 
during your regular applications, but Oxyd's level 10 becomes 
very frustrating if your mouse has dirty feet. Use a mouse 
cleaner kit, or carefully scrape the built-up off the rolers with 
a small screw driver.

Level 11 may only be played up to the point where you encounter 
the magic brick. The magic brick carries a page number, line and 
column reference for use with the Oxyd book. There is no way 
around it, other than typing in the magic formula found in the 
Oxyd book. Order the Oxyd book from your local dealer, book store 
or by sending a check to Dongleware Publishing ($ 39.00 plus 
$ 3.00 shipping and handling. Massachusetts residents add 5% 
sales tax).

While you're waiting for your Oxyd book to arrive, enjoy the 
first 10 levels of the dual player game with a friend. To do 
this, you will have to link your computers by modem, null-modem 
cable, MIDI cable (Atari only) or AppleTalk network.
