                       ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
                       €  ‹  ‹     ‹   ‹           €
                       €  €  €     €   €           €
                       €  €‹‹€ ‹‹‹ €‹‹ €‹‹ ‹‹‹ ‹‹‹ €
                       €  €  € € € € € € € €‹€ €‹‹ €
                       €  €  € €‹€ €‹€ €‹€ €‹‹ ‹‹€ €
                       €‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹€

   About a year ago, I completed my first set of fonts for THEDRAW, the
Calvin family of fonts.  This event was met with wild applause and huzzahs
and-- oh, who am I kidding?  The world barely noticed.  I am glad to note,
however, that in recent months, I've called a couple of boards for the
first time, and discovered that somebody had uploaded TDCALVIN.ZIP before I
even got there.  While this didn't help my upload/download ratio very much,
I did find it somewhat encouraging.  Even better, I found a board that uses
all of the Calvin typefaces in its opening screens.

   One would expect that a true ANSI artist would be sufficiently inspired
by this to create at least one all-new typeface.  And I suppose that this
is, in fact, the case.  However, I never claimed to be a true ANSI artist,
so I just created another variation on the same old theme.  For most intents
and purposes, I took the ol' Calvin font, and traced it over with solid
blocks, instead of the old lines.  I call the result "Hobbes."  What else?

This ZIP file should contain:
   HOBBES.TDF     The all-new Hobbes typeface.
   HOBBES.TXT     This document.  (No kidding!)
   FILE_ID.DIZ    A brief description, for BBSes.
   DESC.SDI       Ditto, for BBSes that don't recognize the .DIZ file.

   Incidentally, if the ZIP file did NOT contain HOBBES.TXT, then I'll be
pretty upset, so please let me know.  (In response to the obvious question,
I figure that any computer user savvy enough to be using this typeface has a
better than average chance of being psychic.  <g>)

   A few letters were modified slightly from their Calvin incarnations, due
to the nature of the characters used to construct them.  The one character
which got pretty much trashed was the asterisk.  I tried about 28 different
versions... and they all stunk to high heaven.  I finally threw up my arms
in despair, and put in the wimpy cop-out version included here.

   Still, overall, it's a pretty decent typeface... and one of the few which
actually has both uppercase and lowercase letters.  As with TDCALVIN, a
little manual kerning is necessary for the lowercase q.  You'll manage.  :-)

   So, what do I want in exchange for the use of this typeface?  I still
think a large extra-cheese pizza would be nice, but experiments have shown
that they don't survive being mailed very well.  So I guess I'll just have
to let people use this font for free, instead.  About the only thing I
require is that it not be distributed without this text file.

   Now, if I could just scrape up the cash to register my copy of THEDRAW
already, I suppose everybody would be happy.  In any event, have a nice day,
and enjoy the font!

   ƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒƒ

   This file, and the accompanying font, are Copyright 1995 by Shmuel Ross.
   All rights reserved.  As are all wrongs.  And all lefts.  And just about
everything else.

   Kudos to Ben Fowler, for getting me started on all this.
