                
                --------------------------------------------------
                Essential Information  -  Quick Start Instructions
                --------------------------------------------------

  Pease take a few moments to read this short file, so you may enjoy the very
  best that Virtual Pool has to offer.
 
  Video/Sound Setup:
  ------------------
 
  When you start Virtual Pool for the first time, the configuration program
  will run, allowing you to select your video driver and sound card.  If you
  do not know what video driver to use, you can select the auto-detect option,
  and the program will attempt to determine which video driver to use.
  Depending on your system hardware, the auto-detect may not be able to
  select the proper driver, and in some cases may hang your computer.  
  
  You may select the option "VIDEO SETUP" from the Start-Up Menu for a more 
  detailed explanation on setting up the proper driver for your specific card.
 
  If, at any time you wish to change these settings, you may do so by selecting
  (R)eset Config. from the StartUp/Help Menu, or directly from within the game.



  Quick Start Instructions:
  -------------------------  

  When Virtual Pool begins you will be in AIM MODE.  Simply move your mouse
  Left or Right to change the AIM.  Moving the mouse forward and back tilts
  the view of the table.  Holding down the left mouse button while moving the
  mouse foward or backwards to increase or decrease the Zoom level.  

  When you are satisfied with your aim, press and hold the S key.  Your Mouse 
  is now connected to the cue stick.  As you move the mouse back and then 
  forward, watch the cue stick move in response.  Move the mouse forward 
  quickly for a powerful shot, slow for a light tap.   
  
  The Main Menu can be accessed by pressing F10, the Escape Key or the Right 
  Mouse Button.  F1 opens the Virtual Pool Help System.  
  
  
  Special Tips:
  -------------
  
  If you need help lining up a shot, press "T" to turn on Tracking.  Colored 
  Lines will appear, showing the paths of the balls using the current Aim.
  You may then adjust your Aim more precisely.  Tracking lines are displayed 
  based partly on the amount of Force used to hit the cue ball, so ball paths 
  will vary depending on how hard you shoot.  To use exactly the amount of 
  Force shown by Tracking, press S to enter SHOOT mode and then press the 
  spacebar.  The spacebar makes the shot automatically, and the balls will 
  then follow the exact paths shown by Tracking.  To change the amount of 
  Force, hold down the "F" key while tracking is on, and move the mouse 
  forward to increase force; backward to decrease force.  The colored Tracking 
  lines will grow longer or shorter in response to your mouse movements.

  Hold the E key while moving the mouse to adjust English.  Hold the B key
  while moving the mouse to raise or lower the butt of the cue stick.  
  To Undo a shot press "U".  To Replay a shot press "R".  For an Overhead
  View press "O".

  Be sure to Select the "Control Keys" option from the Start-Up Menu for a 
  complete listing of all Virtual Pool Commands.


  Trick Shots:                                                              
  ------------
  Included in this demo is a small assortment of Trick Shots.  To view Trick 
  Shots select "Game Setup" from the Main Pool Menu and then choose 
  Practice/Trick Shots.  Then, to Load a Trick Shot, press ALT-L, or choose 
  "Game Options" from the Main Pool Menu and select "Load Position". Now 
  select a trick shot from the menu.  The selected Trick Shot will then be 
  loaded into the game.  Upon Loading a Trick Shot, the game will be in view 
  Mode to allow you to move around the table to view the setup of the shot.  
  You may wish to turn on Tracking (T) at this point to inspect the finer 
  details of the shot.  When you're ready to watch the shot, press R, and the 
  shot will be replayed. To slow down the replay rate press the - key; the 
  + key increases the rate.  After watching the replay, try making the shot 
  yourself by pressing "U" to UNDO the shot, "A" to enter AIM MODE,  then press 
  "S" and use your mouse to attempt the shot.
  



     That should be enough to get you started.  We hope you enjoy playing
     Virtual Pool as much as we've enjoyed making it for you!  



<End_Of_File>
