
                   --------------------------------------
        	   A Glossary of Virtual Pool Terminology
		   --------------------------------------                        

  8-ball       --  A pool game where the object is to pocket all of the striped
                   or solid balls, then the 8-ball.

  9-ball       --  A pool game where the object is to sink the 9-ball.

  Amplify      --  Mouse movements are exaggerated when amplify is on.  Toggle 
                   amplify with the SHIFT key.

  Ball-in-hand --  The player who has ball-in-hand can place the ball anywhere 
                   on the table, or (depending on the game and situation) 
                   anywhere behind the head string.

  Bank         --  Playing a ball off of one or more rails into a pocket.

  Call         --  Specifying the ball and pocket for a shot attempt.

  Carom shot   --  Playing the cue ball or another object ball off an object 
                   ball to knock another object ball into a pocket.


  Combination  --  Playing a shot that hits multiple object balls in series 
                   with the last object ball hit being pocketed.

  Cue Ball     --  The white ball that you hit with the cue stick into other 
                   balls.

  Cue Stick    --  The stick you use to hit the cue ball.

  Cue Tip      --  The end of the cue stick that makes contact with the cue 
                   ball.
	       
  Cut          --  Barely hitting the edge of an object ball to cause it to 
                   roll in a perpendicular direction from the line of the hit.
                   Also known as Slice.

  Diamonds     --  Markers on the table.  The markers and the pockets divide 
                   the long side of the table into eight equal parts.  The 
                   markers divide the short side of the table into four equal 
                   parts.

  Draw Shot    --  To hit the cue ball below center.  (See English)

  End Rail     --  The rails at either end of the table.

  English      --  Hitting the cue ball off center to put a spin on the cue ball.

  Fine Tune    --  Mouse movements are less sensitive when Fine Tune is on so 
                   that mouse movements make small changes.  Toggle Fine Tune 
                   with the Ctrl key.

  Follow       --  To hit the cue ball above center.  (See English)

  Foot         --  The end of the table where the balls are racked for the 
                   break.

  Foot Spot    --  The center of the foot end of the table.  It is marked by 
		   the second diamond at the foot end.  The balls are racked 
		   and spotted here.

  Foul         --  An infraction of the rules of play as defined in either the 
                   general or the specific game rules.  Penalty depends on game.

  Frozen       --  For a ball to be touching the rail or another ball.

  Head         --  The end of the table where the cue ball is for the break.

  Head String  --  The line between the two center diamonds at the head of the 
                   table.  You must break from behind this line.

  Head Spot    --  The center of the head string.

  House Rules  --  Many pool halls and bars have their own specific set of rules 
                   for a game.  For instance, many places don't allow masse 
                   shots for fear of damage to the tables' felt.  Other house 
                   rules might cover banking the 8-ball, etc.  Wherever you are 
                   playing, be sure to note any house rules.

  Inning       -- One person's turn at the table.  Ends at end of game, missed 
		  shot, or foul.

  Kiss Shot    -- Hitting two frozen object balls at an angle so that an 
                  object ball is pocketed along the line perpendicular to the 
                  frozen object balls.


  Masse Shot   -- A shot in which extreme English is applied to the cue ball 
		  by means of elevating the butt of the cue.  

  Miscall      -- Making a shot other than the one called.

  Object Ball  -- The ball to be hit first by the cue ball.  

  Pocket       -- To legally sink a ball into a pocket.

  Position     -- To sink a ball and in such a way as to leave the cue ball 
		  in position for the next shot.

  Race         -- To play a match where the winner is the first to win a 
		  specified number of games.  

  Rack         -- To set up the balls at the beginning of the game.

  Rails        -- The edges of the playing surface off of the which the balls 
		  bounce.

  Rotation     -- A pool game where you have to sink the balls in numerical 
		  order.  Each ball is worth its number of points.

  Run          -- To make several consecutive balls.

  Run Out      -- To make all of the balls on the table without giving your 
		  opponent a chance to shoot.

  Scratch      -- Pocketing the cue ball.

  Side Rail    -- The rails on the sides of the table.

  Slop         -- A ball that is pocketed by luck.

  Spot         -- To place a ball at the foot spot usually as the result of a
		  penalty.
     
  Straight Pool-- A game where the balls are worth one point each and can 
                  be pocketed in any order.  Game is played to a preset 
                  number of points.

  Tracking     -- Feature of Virtual Pool that shows you the exact path of 
                  every ball on the table, based on the current force setting.




