			     
                             ---------------------
			     Questions and Answers
			     ---------------------

  
  Q:      How can I improve the look and performance of Virtual Pool?
  A:      Using the proper Video Driver will enhance the resolution and 
	  performance of Virtual Pool.  To set up your Video Driver, first
	  select "VIDEO SETUP" from the Main Pool Menu within the game.
	  A window will open, displaying the currently installed video
          drivers.  Click on the proper driver to select it, then choose OK.
          The game will then switch to high-res mode.  As the selection of
          drivers is based upon the actual chip used in your video card, you
          may wish to review the Video Setup Option on the Start-Up Menu for
          more complete information on selecting the proper driver for your 
          Video Card, or press (R) from the StartUp menu, and use the Auto-
          detect Feature to scan for the correct driver to use.
  
 
  
  Q:      There is no Video Driver included for my Video Card.
          What should I do?
  A:      Contact Interplay and see if a driver for your card is available.
          Interplay Tech Support: 714.553.6678  -  BBS 714.252.2822

  Q:      I called Interplay and there isn't a driver available for my Video
          Card!  Now what?
  A:      Sorry.  New brands of video cards are being manufactured all the 
	  time, so it's possible that a driver for your card  will be available 
	  soon.  Also note that some Video Cards are not powerful enough to 
	  support Virtual Pool in High-Res Mode; therefore, no video drivers 
	  can be created for them.  All Video Cards will however support the 
	  default low-res mode.

  
  Q:      My mouse doesn't work -- what should I do?
  A:      You either need to install a DOS Mouse Driver before starting Pool 
	  or, even better, set the Serial Port Option in the "DEVICE SETUP"
          Menu from within the game.  Use the ESCape key to bring up the Main
          Pool Menu, the arrow keys to move the cursor to "DEVICE SETUP", and
          the <enter> key to select.  On the Device Menu, switch to the
          appropriate Serial Port for your mouse, then move the cursor to "OK"
          and press <enter>.  Selecting a Serial Port will start the Virtual
          Pool Mouse Driver, which has been specially designed for the game,
          and may provide better performance.  If you make a mistake and select
          the wrong Serial Port, simply re-enter the menu system,highlight the
          proper selection; then press <enter>.  Note that your mouse must be
          100% Microsoft Compatible to use the Virtual Pool Mouse Driver.
          If you have a PS/2, or another type of system that uses a BUS style
          mouse, you must use a DOS Mouse Driver when running Virtual Pool.
  
  Q:      My sound card was not listed under Sound Setup -- which sound card 
	  do I select?
  A:      Most sound cards are compatible with Sound Blaster, so try Sound 
	  Blaster Pro 2 or 16.  If that doesn't work, try Sound Blaster 1, 1.5, 
	  2, or Pro 1.  As a last resort, you may use the Adlib Driver.

  
  Q:      Why won't Tracking turn on and why doesn't Undo or Replay work?
  A:      Tracking, Undo, and Replay are only available while in Practice Mode,
          or while playing against another person on the same computer.

  
  Q:      Why don't the balls follow the paths shown by the tracking lines?
  A:      Ball paths are highly dependent on cue ball speed.  If the cue ball 
	  is not struck at the force shown by the tracking lines the balls may 
	  not follow the paths.  This is especially true of the cue ball.  Use 
	  the space bar to strike the balls with the force shown by the 
	  tracking lines and the balls will follow the exact paths.  Hold down 
	  the F key and move the mouse back (towards you) to Decrease the Force;
	  move the mouse forwards (away from you) to Increase the Force.

  
  Q:      Sometimes I can't see the balls after shooting.  What can I do to 
	  be able to see the entire shot? 
  A:      One way is to zoom out during the shot by pressing the left mouse 
	  button and moving the mouse up (away from you) (ZOOM OUT).
	  Alternately, you may press "O", which will give you an overhead 
	  view of the entire table.
  
  
  Q:      I'm practicing a shot over and over and want to see the result  
	  without waiting for all the balls to stop rolling.  How can I get 
	  to the end of a shot quickly?
  A:      Use the Zip (Z) key to automatically zip to the end of the shot.  
	  The balls will all move to the position they would have ended up in 
	  had they been allowed to roll to a stop naturally.
  
  
  Q:      When I try to use the Remote Play Mode over my Local Area Network a 
	  message saying "IPX driver not loaded" appears.  What's wrong?
  A:      Virtual Pool requires an IPX driver for remote play over Local Area 
	  Networks (LAN). Look for a file named IPX.COM in the software 
	  supplied with your network card.  Install the IPX driver by typing 
	  IPX in the directory with that contains the file IPX.COM. 


  Q:      I'm trying to shoot a ball down the rail but the pocket is off the 
	  screen.  If I zoom out far enough to see the pocket, the balls are 
	  too small for accurate aiming.  Is there a way to see the pocket 
	  without having to zoom out so far?
  A:      Yes.  Use the Center (C) key to reposition the viewing center on the 
	  screen.  Hold down the C key and move the mouse to change the view 
	  center to the right or left screen edge.         

  
  Q:      I load a Trick Shot, but when I take the shot, it completly misses
	  the target.  What are you guys trying to pull?
  A:      Instead of using the mouse to make the shot, use "R" to replay the
	  shot, and you'll see that it does in fact work correctly.  After
	  watching the shot, press "U" to undo the shot and then try it 
	  yourself.  Note that most trick shots are very difficult, and it might 
	  take a bit of practice to make the shots yourself.

  Q:      Virtual Pool runs too slow on my computer.  Is there anything I
          can do to speed things up?
  A:      Yes.  Select Preferences from the Main Menu, and turn off one or
          more of the Display Options, (Show Background, Ball Numbers, Ball
          Shadows, and/or Window size).  By reducing these display options,
          Virtual Pool should run quickly on any computer that meet the
          minimum requirements.
  
  Q:      I Still have Questions.  Where can I get more help?
  A:      Check the other options on the Start-Up Menu for specific help on a 
	  variety of topics.  Press F1 while in the Game to start the Virtual
	  Pool Online Help System.  Read the Command Keys file for a listing
	  and description of all the hot keys in Virtual Pool.  
	  
  Q:      Is there any other place I can get help?
  A:      Yes.  Log on to the Interplay BBS and Join Conference 7, the
	  Virtual Pool Conference.  While you're here you can read the 
	  questions and answers left by other users, ask your own questions 
	  to our Virtual Pool Expert, and even download new Trick Shots!    
	  
          Also check for other Virtual Pool Conferences or Forums on the 
	  Internet, AOL, CompuServe, other Online Services, or your favorite 
	  local BBS.

		   
                        Interplay BBS: 714.252.2822
                        Internet:  support@interplay.com
                        Interplay Tech Support: 714.553.6678  

                        or write:    Interplay
                                     Attn: Customer Service
                                     17922 Fitch Avenue
                                     Irvine, CA  92714



<End_Of_File>
