

                               -----------
                               Trick Shots
                               -----------


     The Virtual Pool Demo contains several sample Trick Shots which you 
     can load to view or practice.  To load a trick shot, first open the
     Main Pool menu by pressing ESCape, or clickng the right mouse button.
     Select "GAME SETUP" and the Game Setup Menu will open.  From this
     menu select "Practice/Trick Shots" and then select OK.  The game will
     then switch to Practice/Trick Shots Mode.  Now press ALT-L to bring up
     the Trick Shot menu.  Simply select a trick shot from the list and
     it will be loaded in Virtual Pool.

     When a Trick Shot is first loaded, the game will be in VIEW Mode; so
     you can move around the table as you wish without affecting the shot.
     You may wish to turn on Tracking (T) at this point to see the finer
     details of the shot.  When you want to see the shot in action, press
     (R) to replay the shot.  To speed up the replay rate, press the + key;
     to slow down the replay rate, press -.  The current replay rate is 
     shown on the right side of the status bar.  Available replay rates are
     1/4, 1/2, 1/8 speeds and 1, which is full speed.  The replay rate can
     be adjusted at any time, even during a replay.  After watching the
     shot replay, type (U) to Undo the shot to it's starting position.  You
     may replay the shot and undo as many times as you wish in this manner.

     When you're ready to try the shot yourself, type (A) to switch to Aim
     mode, then press and hold (S) and use your mouse to attempt the shot.
     If you accidently move the Aim before you're ready to shoot, simply
     type (U) to undo the shot to it's starting position.

     Included in the CD-ROM version of Virtual Pool are over 60 trick shots,
     all detailed in Live Action Video by Lou "Machine Gun" Butera, as well 
     as saved Trick Shot Setups in the game.



<End_Of_File>
