
                            -----------
                            Video Setup
                            -----------

  When you start Virtual Pool for the first time, the game will be in low
  resolution to insure its compatibility with all VGA video cards.  To
  switch to high resolution mode, bring up the Main Menu by pressing the 
  Escape key or by clicking the right mouse button.  From this menu, select
  the option VIDEO SETUP.  A window will open, displaying the installed
  video drivers.  Select the proper driver for your video card from the list.
  These drivers are based on the type of chip used in various video cards.   
  There are currently many different manufacturers of video cards, 
  and each manufacturer may use different chips in different models, or
  in different versions of the same card.  To determine the chip set of your 
  particular video card, refer to your video card documentation, inspect the 
  actual video card for the chip type, or contact the manufacturer.    

  If you make a mistake and select the wrong card, don't worry.  The program 
  should display an error message and allow you to return to the standard, 
  low resolution mode.  If your computer should hang, simply reboot, and
  when re-starting the game, press ESCape when given the option to bypass
  the currently selected Video Driver.  The game will then start in low-res
  mode, and you can try another video selection.

  Virtual Pool uses specific Video Drivers to insure the fastest possible
  game play.  As these drivers are constantly being written and updated,  
  there may not yet be one available for your particular Video Card.  In  
  this case you may try the "Universal" driver by selecting the 640x480
  VESA 1.2 BIOS EXTENSION.  Note that the successful use of this driver
  is dependent on several factors and may not be compatible with your
  particular system or configuration.

  If none of the included drivers work for your video card, don't worry.  
  Virtual Pool plays perfectly accurate in normal resolution mode.



<End_Of_File>
