

Notes for the DOS Abuse version :


To get the most current version of this file point to
  http://www.crack.com 

  You must have a mouse driver loaded to play Abuse.  This will be the
one that came with your mouse or c:\dos\mouse.sys

  You must have a VESA driver loaded in order to play hi-res.  Most
new cards have drivers built-in, but older card folks will need to use
one supplied by their card dealer, or get univbe or univesa from any
simtel mirror ftp site such as wuarchive.wustl.edu.
 
  It is recommend that you beat Abuse at 320x200 before playing
hi-res, because you can see more than you are supposed to.  This is
basically cheating and unless you are not a gamer, you may spoil some
of the puzzles.  All the levels were designed with the 320x200 player
in mind and hi-rez was added to assist level designers, not level
players.

  That said, you can get a list of video modes that your video card
supports by typing : "abuse -size ?"  If you already know this
information, you can type : "abuse -size 640 480" for example.

  When abuse first starts up it will automatically run setup.exe to
configure your sound card.  You may run setup.exe at any time and
reconfigure your card.  If you try to detect a sound card when you
don't have one or you try to detect a card multiple times it will lock
up and you must reboot.  If setup somehow detects the wrong card, try
to detect again and alternate detection mechanisms will be used.  It's
important that the IRQ and base port address are correct or there's
an off chance you'll damage your hard drive.

  If your sound card does not work properly on the test, check to
see that all nessasary drivers for your card are loaded and configured
correctly.  For example ProAudio Spectrum's require a driver to be
loaded in your config.sys.

  If you have over 4MB it, it is recommend you run smartdrv.

  Note : version 0.32 & 0.33 have a problem with saving levels, to
fix until 0.34 delete the line (setq keep_back T) from
lisp/startup.lsp.


                    JC
