









                                        ARC

                               File Archive Utility
                                   Version 6.02


             Copyright 1985-89 by System Enhancement Associates, Inc.
                                ALL RIGHTS RESERVED


      ARC is used to create and maintain file archives.  An archive is a
      group of files collected together into one file in such a way that the
      individual files may be recovered intact.  ARC automatically
      compresses the files being archived so that the resulting archive
      takes up a minimum amount of space.

      When ARC is used to add a file to an archive it analyzes the file to
      determine which of three storage methods will result in the greatest
      savings.  Since one of the three methods involves no compression at
      all, the resulting archive entry will never be larger than the
      original file.

      ARC provides a full range of functions for archive creation and
      maintenance.  ARC also provides password encryption to protect your
      data from unauthorized use.

      While the exact degree of compression achieved will vary depending on
      the contents of any given file, typical compression rates are as
      follows:

          Programs (.EXE and .COM) files     20% to 30%
          ASCII text and documents           50% to 60%
          Spreadsheets                       50% to 90%

      ARC calculates a cyclical redundancy check (CRC) on every file it puts
      in an archive and recalculates it whenever a file is extracted.  This
      helps to ensure data integrity when archives are transmitted over
      telephone lines.

      A program disk with printed documentation is available for $50 from:

                        System Enhancement Associates, Inc.
                           21 New Street, Wayne NJ 07470

      or by phone at (201) 473-5153 (Visa and MasterCard accepted).  If ARC
      is obtained by other means, then it may not be used in a commercial
      environment or a governmental organization without payment of a $35
      license fee.  Site licenses and commercial distribution licenses are
      available.  Full program sources are available.


