
                                  EGA TREK
                        Version 3.0   January 22, 1992
                     Copyright 1988-1991 by Nels Anderson
                             All Rights Reserved

                                Nels Anderson
                               92 Bishop Drive
                         Framingham, MA 01701 U.S.A.

                          Xevious BBS: 508-875-3618
                           CompuServe: 71020, 2613


This file contains information for disk vendors, BBS sysops, user groups,
etc. who wish to distribute this program.  For the purposes of this
document, all of the above will be referred to as disk vendors.

This software is copyrighted material and is subject to certain restrictions
on copying and distribution.

Vendors of any type, whether program distribution is free or whether a fee
of any type is charged, may distribute this program under the following
conditions:

    - The vendor is an associate member of the Association of Shareware 
      Professionals and follows the requirements of such membership. Or if
      not an ASP member, the vendor properly represents the software as
      shareware and provides customers with a complete definition of the
      shareware concept.  You must not advertise this software as "free",
      "cheap" or "public domain".

    - The vendor must in no way imply that they are "selling" the program
      but rather are only providing a duplication service where the program
      is provided for evaluation.  You may not "rent" or "lease" copies of
      this program.

    - You do not rename, change or omit any of the provided files.

    - The vendor should provide the author with a copy of their catalog.

    - You may distribute this program in a compressed form.  You may also
      include your own text files, "go.bat" startup files, etc. along with
      the program.

If you indicate ASP membership in your catalog, please do so for your
listing of this program.

The author reserves the right to withhold or withdraw permission to
distribute from anyone at any time for any reason.

Software reviewers: If you plan to review this software for publication,
please contact me first to make sure you have the most recent version of
the product and that the ordering information supplied to your readers
will be accurate.


Program:	EGATrek
Version:	3.0
Size:		8 files, 154k
To run, type:	trek
Registration:	$15 ($22 for printed manual/binder/reference card)
Program Type:	Space strategy game
Monitor Type:	EGA/VGA
Mouse:		No (keyboard only)

One line description:  Great update of classic space battle game

Short description: The classic space battle type game updated to support
EGA/VGA graphics. Includes many features such as view screen, torps,
phasers, communications, charts, scanners, etc.

Detailed description:

EGATrek is based on the classic minicomputer space game but updates
it with colorful EGA graphics.  Your computer's screen becomes the
control console of a starship captain, complete with scanners, maps,
communications, fire control and even an outside view of the ship.
The object is to defeat all enemy ships in your assigned portion of
the galaxy.

The game includes several levels of difficulty, multiple saved games,
and a detailed report of your success (or failure) at the end of each
mission.  An extensive briefing built into the game gets you started
quickly.
