
   INSTRUCTIONS FOR THE INTERACTIVE DEMO OF THE INCREDIBLE MACHINE
                              (10/07/92)

Greetings fellow inventors, puzzlers, and gamesters!!  Welcome to the
wacky and wondrous world of "The Incredible Machine".

This interactive demo version lets you get a taste of the game to see
for yourself if you want to buy the full version which will be
available in stores and directly from Sierra On-Line in November 1992.

INSTALLATION  (FROM DISK)

1.     If you are reading this, you have the Demo disk in a floppy drive, 
       and you are in the TIM directory. So, go to step 2.

2.     Now type INSTALL <ENTER>.

3.     Select COPY THE INCREDIBLE MACHINE to HARD
       DRIVE from the Smart Start menu.

4.     Follow the on-screen instructions.

STARTING TIM

Any time you wish to play TIM after it has been installed, follow
these instructions:

1.     Get into the TIM directory on the hard drive.
       Probably by typing CD C:\DYNAMIX\TIM.

2.     Type TIM to start the program.


PLAYING TIM

1.     From the Control Panel, click on either the arrow icon
       or the picture of the playfield.  The Smart Cursor
       will show the word PLAY.

2.  Now all actions are controlled by the mouse and the Smart Cursor.
Notice that when your cursor is over a part (where the part border is
animating), one or more "handles" will be available to click on. The
number of "handles" shown will be based upon what can be done to a
part.  For example, if a part can not be flipped then the flip
"handles" will not be shown.  These handles will perform the following
actions when they are clicked on:

PICKUP - (Smart Cursor is arrow with HAND icon) Pickup is active
within the interior of the active part, or over the part icon if the
Smart Cursor is over the parts bin.  After being picked up, a part can
be placed anywhere on the screen as long as it does not overlap
another part.  If it is overlapping another part, a large red "X" will
appear over it.  The part can also be dropped back into the part bin.
Click the mouse button to drop a part after it has been picked up.

RECYCLE - (Smart Cursor is arrow with RECYCLE icon) This handle is in
the upper left corner of the active part.  Recycle will immediately
remove a part from the playfield and put it back into the parts bin.

FLIP - (Smart Cursor is arrow with FLIP icons) These handles are in
the lower left and lower right corners of the active part and allow
the active part to be flipped left/right or up/down.

RESIZE - (Smart Cursor is arrow with RESIZE icons) These handles are
above, below, to the left, and to the right of the active object.
Clicking on one of these handles activates resizing.  Moving the mouse
will change the size of the active part.  Clicking the mouse a second
time turns off resizing.

3. Click on the STARTER icon (in the upper right corner of the screen)
when you are ready to run your machine.  To stop a running machine,
just click the mouse button.  Below the Starter icon are the Scroll
Part Bin arrows.  If there are more than five different types of parts
in the parts bin, these arrows allow you to scroll through them.  The
Control Panel can be brought up by clicking the RIGHT mouse button.


PUZZLES

For this interactive demo, there are only eight puzzles, but in the
real version there are over 100 puzzles.  The goals of each puzzle are
described on the Control Panel.  In each puzzle there will be some
parts that are already positioned on the playfield.  Note that you
cannot pickup, recycle, flip, or resize any of these initial parts.

Once a puzzle has been solved you will be given a password for later
access.  This demo version of TIM always allows access to all puzzles,
so you don't need to worry about the passwords.  After solving a
puzzle, the next puzzle will automatically be loaded for you.  If you
want to select a different puzzle, simply click on the Puzzle icon
from the Control Panel, highlight the desired puzzle, and then click
on the PLAY icon.  The puzzle that you have selected will be loaded.


FREEFORM

NOTE:  Freeform is not available in the demo version.

From the Control Panel, click on the Wrench icon.  In this mode you
have an unlimited number of parts and all the different types of parts
are available for use.  You are also able to change the gravity and
the air pressure.  You can build any machine you desire.  You can also
save the machine to disk for later use.  Saved machines can also be
uploaded to bulletin boards.


PC SOUNDS

NOTE: Although this demo version does not support PC speakers, it does
support most major sound cards.


Look for the full version of The Incredible Machine in November 1992.
Please pass this version along to your friends.

HAVE FUN!!

Copyright 1992 Sierra On-Line

TO ORDER THE INCREDIBLE MACHINE

                         Sierra On-Line, Inc.
                           Order Department
                             P.O. Box 978
                       Oakhurst, CA  93644-9899

  Call (800) 326-6654 to place an order or get pricing information.
