HOW TO PLAY THIS DEMO:

CONTROLS:

Move your character with either the numeric keypad or by holding the
right mouse button down while moving the mouse.

Move the reticle (game cursor) with either the mouse, the cursor keys,
or the keyboard (the A, W, S and D keys are the default setting).

Right-click or use the Enter key to open doors or acquire useful items.
Be careful though, when the cross hairs are near the edges of the
screen, the outer corner reticle brackets disappear and the inner
brackets become purple.  When this occurs, right-clicking or pressing
the Enter key does not pick up items or open doors.  It selects icons and
other options.

To attack, press (or hold down for automatic fire) the left mouse
button or space bar.  Attacks are always aimed at the center of the cross
hairs.

To jump, select the Jump Jet Icon or press the gray + key.

Everything is described in greater detail below.


CHARACTER MOVEMENT:

    Keyboard options:
Use the numeric keypad located at the right of your keyboard for movement.

These keys will work as follows:
    1-- Slide left
    2-- Back up (while facing forward)
    3-- Slide right
    4-- Turn left
    5-- Back up (while facing forward)
    6-- Turn right
    7-- Move forward while turning left
    8-- Move forward
    9-- Move forward while turning right
    /-- Look down
    *-- Look up
    +-- Jump

To make your character move faster (run), hold down the Shift key during
movement.

    Mouse:
To move with the mouse, hold down the right mouse button and point the
mouse in the direction that you would like to travel.  This option may
not be selected while the reticle is close to the edges of the screen.

When the mouse is being used to move the character, it cannot be used to
move the reticle.  When using the mouse to move the character, a small "+"
appears in the center of the reticle.  When this "+" is moved outside the
inner reticle brackets, an arrow appears showing the direction of
movement.  The further the "+" moves from the reticle center, the faster
the character moves.  Movement ceases while the "+" is within the inner
reticle brackets.

Use the mouse to move the cursor to the top of the screen and "push"
against the top edge of the screen to make the character look up.  Push
against the bottom edge to make the character look down.  Push the cursor
to either side of the screen to turn the character in place. This can be
used to have the character turn in place without right-clicking.

Movement directions for the mouse are:
    Bottom left of reticle-- Slide left
    Bottom center of reticle-- Back up while facing forward
    Bottom right of reticle-- Slide right
    Center left of reticle-- Turn left
    Center of reticle-- No movement
    Center right of reticle-- Turn right
    Top left of reticle-- Move forward while turning left
    Top center of reticle-- Move forward
    Top right of reticle-- Move forward while turning right
    Jump Jet icon-- Jump


MOVING THE RETICLE (game cursor):

Move the reticle with the cursor keys.  The reticle moves in the
direction shown by the 	arrows on these keys.  The A, S, D, and W keys
may also be used to position the reticle:
    A-- moves the reticle left,
    S-- moves the reticle down,
    D-- moves the reticle right,
    W-- moves the reticle up.

Moving the mouse moves the reticle in the direction that you point it.
Remember that the reticle will not move while the right mouse button is
being pressed.  See the readme.txt file accompanying this demo for
details on changing the setup of your keyboard.


USING THE CROSS HAIRS:

    To Attack:
Center the cross hairs on the target and press the left mouse button or
the space bar.  To fire a weapon as rapidly as possible, hold down the
left mouse button or space bar.

    To Open/Close Doors:
Place the center of the cross hairs over the door.  The reticle will turn
purple.  Press the right mouse button or Enter key to open the door.  You
have to be relatively close to a door to open it.  If you attempt to open
a door from too far away, you will receive an "out of range" message.
Secret doors will also be located by the color change of the reticle.
Clicking on an open door will close it.

    To Get Things:
To get something, select it while the cross hairs are green.  Like doors,
your character must be relatively close to an item to acquire it.  If you
are too far away and try to get an item, you will get an "out of range"
message.


USING ITEMS:

Once an item has been acquired, it will go into your inventory.  In order
to use the item, you have to right click on the inventory icon, and then
right click on the item itself.  Once the item has been used, it will
disappear from your inventory.


CHANGING WEAPONS:

Once a new weapon has been acquired, you must ready it for use.  Right
click on the ammunition counter on the right side of the screen.  This
will show you all of the weapons at your disposal.  Right-clicking on the
weapon that you are currently using will ready your hand weapon.
Right-click on the weapon that you want to ready.

AUTOMAP:

Right-click on the Automap icon or press the M key.  While the automap is
in use, play freezes.  The automap can be rotated by using the two arrow
buttons at the bottom of the screen.  Clicking on the options to the left
of the map will turn the corresponding element on or off.  This can
sometimes help in determining where you are.  You appear as a large red
arrow.  Selecting exit will return to the game.	Pressing the left mouse
button and dragging will scroll the map.  Dragging the right mouse button
will move the "flashlight" and rotate it.  This will show you a view in
the world at the location that you placed it and it can only be placed in
an area that you have already been in.
